[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: I'm gonna show my
HTML and I'm going to put in a button.
>> Jafar Husain: And give it an ID.
>> Jafar Husain: And
we'll pull in this button up here.
now I'm gonna create button clicks, right?
Cuz the first thing we do,
when we have an asynchronous API,
is we adapt it to an observable.
So, I'm gonna create clicks and
I'm gonna use the fromEvent
method that we just wrote.
>> Jafar Husain: And
I'm going to put in the button,
and the name of the event which is click,
and let's just see right
off the bat if this works.
We're gonna pass in forEach function.
I'm just gonna log it to the console.
And if it doesn't, that'll be a good
opportunity for us to debug it, and
see what's going on.
So run, uh-oh, unexpected token.
Am I in 6to5?
I may have just forgotten to set my
browser to 6to5, there we go, 6to5.
That will do the transpolation,
allow me to use ES6.
It means, literally, ES6to5 so
it's gonna convert it for us so
we get to use the arrow function.
Clear.
I forgot to show the HTML window or
the output window.
>> Off Camera 1: Looks like you might
be able to just add it to the URL.
>> Jafar Husain: Add it, sorry?
>> Off Camera 1: Well, so
you see HTML comma, yeah.
>> Jafar Husain: Where is it?
>> Off Camera 1: You
just type comma output.
>> Jafar Husain: That was a good tip,
thank you.
So now let's see, is this font size?
Are we doing okay, font size wise?
>> Off Camera 2: Yeah, it's 20 points.
>> Jafar Husain: Unfortunately it's
kind of blocking my way here and so
I'll click me and look at that.
We're now forEaching over a click
stream without much code.
So we've got an observable, right?
We've written it out to the console, but
what we actually wrote out to the console
is the event object we got from the click.
That's all that code there, that's all
that stuff from the console you're seeing.
It's all the properties on the event
object we got from the click.
So let's print out just one or
two of those properties.
I think we had some problems with offsetX
didn't we, when we tried it on Firefox?
But pageX, we might have a pageX for
this click button so
we could see where we're
actually clicking.
>> Jafar Husain: And this is the x and
y position on the page where
I'm clicking the button, right?
So why don't we map it?
Why don't we translate this number?
I mean this is kind of a silly program,
but
it's just to demonstrate
the code in action, right?
So I'm gonna map over this.
>> Off Camera 2: You can remove
the HTML panel from the comma.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah it'll require,
good call, good call, that's much nicer.
And then what we can do
with a very small console.
>> Jafar Husain: So
let's map over this now.
And as soon as I have more than
one operator notice what I do.
I move it to the next tab level so
that we can line up.
And let's take this event object and
why not just pull off the pageX.
And let's just add 50 to it.
I know it's a silly program, but
you kind of get the point, right?
Now we can just display the data.
We don't have to pull up pageX.
Now we actually just got a number.
So we're just taking pageX and
we added 50 to it.
Or why don't we,
just to make sure it worked,
we just turn it into a string and
put px afterwards.
Gonna run it.
So we can see that we're now
mapping this observable.
That we're mapping the data comes out.
We're translating it, right?
And I actually only wanna see
numbers that are say larger than 40.
>> Jafar Husain: There we got one.
>> Multiple: [LAUGH]
>> Off Camera 1: Succeeded at partially
breaking it.
>> Jafar Husain: So, let's take a look
at what actually goes on under the hood,
shall we?
So how are we gonna figure out?
Well, let's throw a breakpoint
somewhere in this code.
In fact, let's throw a breakpoint in,
right here.
Let's see what happens when we
call forEach on an observable.
Let's walk through the chain and
let's see what happens.
So you let me know, Mark,
if I need to bump up this font size.
>> Jafar Husain: I'm gonna run it.
Hit debugger.
There's a bunch of stuff in here added by.
Anybody know how to get rid of this-
>> Off Camera 1: There's a little arrow to
the left of the thing.
Yeah, there go you.
>> Jafar Husain: And on the right-hand
side, anything I can do about it?
>> Off Camera 2: Does that one work,
the grey one?
>> Jafar Husain: Grey one, where?
I got you.
No, it does not.
That's not bad.
I can break it out.
There we go.
So let's step through,
I'm gonna step over.
And now I'm gonna step in and
see where we end up with.
Now we're in that wrapper function.
You remember that wrapper function?
It's whole job is to sanitize any input.
If we pass in functions,
we'll turn it into observers.
If we pass in an observer,
we'll just thread it on through.
So what did I do?
Well, I passed in a function.
So we're gonna wrap it
inside of an observer.
And now we're gonna delegate to
the actual definition of forEach
that we passed into the constructor.
And here we are inside of the observable.
So here we are inside of
our forEach function.
And we're gonna call, map's job, right,
map is gonna call forEach on the source.
This is when she calls for
each on me, right?
So we're gonna step into that.
And once again we find ourselves
in that outer wrapper function.
It's job is just to make sure that
all the output's sanitized, etc, etc.
So let's step into that.
And now we're in the filtered observable,
right?
Cuz we mapped the result
of a filtered observable.
And so if we step into that back in the
public function, also I'll skip past that.
And finally we find ourselves inside
of the from event observable,
the observable that
represents the event itself.
So now we create a handler,
we step over and we add.
Now, notice I've been
saying this all along, but
now we can see why we only add an event
listener when we call forEach.
So if we hadn't called forEach,
this code never would have run.
We never would have hooked
up this event handler.
So I'm gonna step over it, and
now we're gonna return this object,
right, the subscription object,
that we call dispose on.
Now we're never gonna call
dispose in our code so
this code is never actually gonna run,
right.
So, I'm going to run this code and
now I'm gonna put a breakpoint
inside of the event handler.
So now we've seen what happens
when we're calling forEach,
when the message is going this way.
Now we're gonna see what happens
when the message turns around.
So he calls forEach on her,
she calls forEach on me.
And I call onNext on her,
and she calls onNext on him.
Now the data's traveling
the other direction.
So as soon as I click this button,
>> Jafar Husain: Now we're back in.
>> Jafar Husain: So
I step into the onNext function.
So here we are,
I've stepped into the onNext function.
Sorry I did that before that was visible,
but
we went all the way from,
>> Jafar Husain: Where is it, fromEvent?
So we started here at 56 and
I stepped into this code and
we ended up inside of
the filtered onNext function.
Right, so I've onNexted her and
now she is gonna check to see if it
passes the test, which it may or
may not, actually it might not.
It does, great.
And so now she's gonna call onNext on him.
And since there's actually three steps
in there, we got one more person
involved here, right,
now we're in the map function, right?
We first filtered and then we mapped,
and now she calls onNext on him.
He's the mapped observable and
this fellow, sorry, what's your name?
>> Off Camera 4: Kedian.
>> Jafar Husain: KTO?
>> Jafar Husain: Kedian?
>> Off Camera 4: Yes.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay, hopefully
I'm close on that one, I'm sorry.
He's now called forEach, so
he's the filtered observable, right?
And when we call.
Sorry you're the mapped
observable cuz we're calling
the projection function, right?
We're gonna step into the projection
function and look where we are.
Now we're back in our code, right?
Now we're the plan where we're taking that
item, that I've onNexted through, and
it's made it through the filter.
And now we're translating it.
We're gonna make it into a string.
We're gonna stick px on the end of it.
Gonna step in through that.
And we're gonna onNext it.
And finally we forward it to the very end.
And we end up in our forEach function,
which has got a bunch of junk
in it because of JS Bin.
But this is basically the forEach
function that we wrote.
So JS Bin does this so
that it can intercept the console log and
put into that pane we saw earlier.
But if you look at our actual code here,
it's just console log.
And so we made it all the way out
to where we called forEach and
we printed out the results.
And so if I do this,
we're gonna see,
>> Jafar Husain: Some
junk that's JS Bin related, but
that's actually our answer right there.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay, so
the code drilled all the way up, and
then we drilled all the way back down.
So, hopefully now we have actually
a pretty good idea what's going on under
the hood when we use an observable.
There's not much to it.
You're just forwarding along data,
forEach goes up, data goes down.